1. Demonstrate Authentication to OpenShift Master
	Skip this section if you already executed the steps in previous demonstrations.

    Action: Log in to the OPENTLC shared OpenShift web console using either of these methods:

        Method 1: Go to https://master.na1.openshift.opentlc.com

        Method 2: Use the command line from any host with the OpenShift client utility (oc) installed:

        LocalMachine$ oc login https://master.na1.openshift.opentlc.com --username shacharb-redhat.com
        Username: shacharb-redhat.com
        Password: **********
        Logged into "https://master.na1.openshift.opentlc.com" as "shacharb-redhat.com" using existing credentials.

2. Demonstrate Creating a Project
	Skip this section if you already executed the steps in previous demonstrations.

    Action: Click New Project to create a project for your demonstration:
    Demo01 New Project Button

        Explain what projects are and how different projects can have different user permissions and quotas attached to them.

    Action: Fill in the Name, Display Name, and Description fields:
    Explore Demo02 Create Project Details
    	Make sure you replace unique-id or GUID with a unique identifier (such as your client’s name). Project names must be unique in OpenShift.
    	

    Two other options for completing this task:

        Use the command line from any host with the OpenShift client utility (oc) installed:

        [sborenst@ip-192-168-20-158 ~]$ oc new-project ${GUID}-exploring-openshift --description="This is the Project for exploring OpenShift UI" --display-name="Exploring OpenShift UI"
        Now using project "guid-exploring-openshift" on server "https://master.na1.openshift.opentlc.com".

        Run the oc new-project ${GUID}-exploring-openshift command without the description and display name information.

3. Demonstrate Deploying an Application Based on a Template
	Skip this section if you already executed the steps in previous demonstrations.

    Action: After creating your project or after clicking Add to project, enter example in the catalog filter and select cakephp-mysql-example:
    Explore Demo03 Select Template

        Explain the following aspects of the Application Creation page:

            Point out the Name for this deployment.

            Point out the Memory limits for your PHP application and for the MySQL database container.

            Point out that the Git Repository URL field allows you to define the Git repository that contains the source code for your application.
            Explore Demo04 App Template Options1

        Explain that there are more settings that you can define as you scroll down the page:

            Point out that you can set different variables in your deployment, such as the database user, passwords, and more, and that these settings are used to deploy the front-end application and the back-end database.

            Point out that you can use Labels to add information to deployment objects and resources that you can then use to group, inspect, scale, or delete them.
            Explore Demo05 App Template Options2

    Action: When you are done, click Create.

        (Optional) Explain the following features on this screen:

            Point out that on the left you can see an example of how to log in to OpenShift using the OpenShift client utility (oc).

            Point out that on the right you can easily access the webhook trigger to create a new build.

            Point out that you can view the deployment parameters values by clicking Show parameter values:
            Explore Demo06 App Create1 a

        (Optional) Explain (if you clicked the link) that the expanded parameters now visible at the bottom provide another view of all the settings you can use for this application:
        Explore Demo07 App Create2 a

    Action: When you are done, click Continue to overview at the top.

4. Demonstrate Exploring Quotas & Limits

    Action: From the menu on the left, select Resources → Quota:
    Explore Demo15 Quotas01

    Explain that the project’s Quota page displays all of the quotas and limits currently set for the project:

        Point out the graphical display of usage and availability of resources in the project based on requests and limits for CPU and memory.

        Point out the specific quota and usage data for each resource type.

        Point out the container and pod requests and limits.
        Explore Demo15 Quotas02

    Action: From the menu on the left, select Overview to return to the Overview page.

        Explain that you are now going to scale up the deployment to show how the quota limits restrict the deployment from using more resources than allowed.

    Action: Scale your application to 7 pods by clicking the Up button (marked with a green square) six times.

        Point out that you can see OpenShift scaling up the pods.

        Point out that you can also see the resources used by all of the pod replicas in this deployment.
        Explore Demo15 Quotas04

    Action: From the menu on the left, select Resources → Quota to return to the Quota page:
    Explore Demo15 Quotas01

        Explain that the Quota page displays your quota, and that depending on the policy set by the cluster’s administrators you can have a quota set per project, group of projects, user, or none at all:

            Point out that the graphics display the resources that are used by the current project or by other projects.

            Point out that it is easy to spot where your quota is limiting your deployment from scaling up.

            Point out that the limit ranges define the minimum and maximum constraints for container resources such as memory and CPU.
            Explore Demo15 Quotas05

5. Cleanup

If you are not going do do any additional demonstrations go back to the OpenShift Homepage and delete your project.
6. Additional Demonstrations

You can do the following optional demonstrations:

    Show adding storage to a container.

    Show metrics and logging for a container.


Build Version: 1.8R : Last updated 2017-08-25 12:26:46 EDT
