1. crate account on endure
2. Crate account on GC and manage firwall
3. crate account on AZUre
create a viryual instance on azure which we are going to migrate to GC
Manage firewall inbout and outbound rule on azure, So that wen can access application hosted on 
Azure can access from out side(for testing purpose i am ceating apache web server on Azure with Centos 7)

Now we are using cloudEndure to migrate virtual instance from Azure to GC
1. Create a project on Cloudendure( for example: i ma creating a project intoGC)
2. Select a project type
there are two type of project Migration or Data Recovery
3. Again we have to slect target Cloud(where our virtual instances is migrated)
for example i ma selecting GCP and Contunue...
4.for GC 
4a. Put Google Cloud platform Project ID( For example::   migrationtest-185219 => this is my test google cloud platform Project id)
4b. put Google cloud Platform JSON private key Key.(it is json file you have to download from google cloud for example::migrationtest-2c4ef1272df8.json)
4c save it
5. you can see migration target.
you have to select live migration target(like Google eastUs,....) I am selecting google eastUs here ...
Please do not forgot this step.
5.a. you have to selcet your subnet(if you forget to select subnet then cloudendure create its own subnet which can not accessible from out side)
here i am selecting default subnet becase i already manage firewall rules.
6. save the replication setting.... after doing this step you will see one popUp window with message
"""Project setup complete

Congratulations!

Your Live Migration Project is set up.

The next step is to install the CloudEndure Agent on your Source machine.
"""
7. Please select show me how button on pup up window..
7.a you will see cloud endure agaent installation token...
7. b If you are migrating linux/unix machines or windows machine ....  
8. I am migrating linux machine so i dont have to downloads windows installaer files.
8.a download installaer files sinf wget (some time there will not be wget package on minimal linux installation first install wget package and run wget command to dowload python installer script)
for example centos/fedora/redhat/ubuntu/min/and othre linux hre is command

wget -O ./installer_linux.py https://console.cloudendure.com/installer_linux.py
9. Run installer_linux.py with cloudEndure token... example here
sudo python ./installer_linux.py -t E34E-BD62-3989-4D1F-ED4A-75D7-66BB-DC99-1A6E-F3BD-C84D-AD3C-B10E-8FC1-BE4E-4B22
10. before running script you have to check there is kernel-devel package is installed or not and do not forgot to check 
virsion of kernel. Some time you will got the problem because of kernel virsion 
11. after this step... replicationtake place
you can see the progress bar on cloudendure...
12. after finish replication you can deploy your replica on gc...


