Demonstrate Deployments & Deployment Strategies Lab
Scenario

In the scenario for this demonstration lab, a developer needs to execute the following common sequence:

    Deploy an application.

    Scale the application.

    Redeploy the application with a new environment variable.

    View the deployment.

    Change the deployment type.

    Redeploy the application.

1. Demonstrate Authentication to OpenShift Master

    Action: Log in to the OPENTLC shared OpenShift web console using either of these methods:

        Method 1: Go to https://master.na1.openshift.opentlc.com

        Method 2: Use the command line from any host with the OpenShift client utility (oc) installed:

        LocalMachine$ oc login https://master.na1.openshift.opentlc.com --username shacharb-redhat.com
        Username: shacharb-redhat.com
        Password: **********
        Logged into "https://master.na1.openshift.opentlc.com" as "shacharb-redhat.com" using existing credentials.

2. Demonstrate Creating a Project

    Action: Click New Project to create a project for your demonstration:
    Demo01 New Project Button

        Explain what projects are and how different projects can have different user permissions and quotas attached to them.

    Action: Fill in the Name, Display Name, and Description fields:
    Deployments Demo01 New Project Details
    	

    Two other options for completing this task:

        Use the command line from any host with the OpenShift client utility (oc) installed:

        [sborenst@ip-192-168-20-158 ~]$ oc new-project guid-deployments-demo --description="This is the project to host the deployments strategy demonstration" --display-name="Demonstrating Deployment Strategies"
        Now using project "guid-deployments-demo" on server "https://master.na1.openshift.opentlc.com".

        Run the oc new-project guid-deployments-demo command without the description and display name information.

3. Demonstrate Deploying an Application Using S2I

    Action: After creating your project or after clicking Add to project, enter php in the catalog filter and select php:7.0:
    Deployments Demo01 Select Deploy Image

    Action: Enter cotd in the Name field.

    Action: Enter https://github.com/StefanoPicozzi/cotd in the Git Repository URL field.

    Action: Click Show advanced routing, build, and deployment options:
    Deployments Demo01 Create App1

        Explain the following aspects of the Environment Variables and Labels sections:

            How labels are used in OpenShift and how easy it is to label new deployments.

            How environment variables are used in OpenShift and how easy it is to set environment variables such as user names, database names, and others to modify deployment.

    Action: Enter a new environment variable named SELECTOR, with cities as the value:
    Deployments Demo01 Create App2

    Action: Add labels for all of the resources in the deployment and click Create when you are done:

    Deployments_Demo01_Create_App3

    Action: From the Application created page, click Continue to overview.

        Explain that the application has been deployed to display cities as you defined in the environment variable.

    Action: Open the application route in a new tab and show that the application was deployed and displays cities.

    Action: Scale your application to 3 pods by clicking the Up button (marked by the small green square) twice.

        Explain that you can see OpenShift scaling up the pods.
        Deployments Demo01 Scale App

4. Demonstrate Redeploying an Application

    Action: Navigate to Applications → Deployments and select your deployment:
    Deployments Demo01 Deployments Menu

        Explain that this page displays your deployment configuration.

            Point out that the deployment is set to Rolling and explain that OpenShift deploys a new pod replica and removes an old deployment pod replica repeatedly until the new deployment is at the required replica count and the old deployment is at zero.

    Action: Click Deploy to show the Overview page:
    Deployments Demo01 Redeploy1

        Explain the following aspects of the deployment now in progress using the Rolling deployment strategy:

            Point out that a new pod is created for the new deployment, and after a health-check test, an old deployment pod is destroyed.

            Point out that OpenShift continues to increase the size of the new deployment and decrease the old deployment one pod at a time.

            Mention that using this deployment strategy is good for minimizing application downtime when the new and old deployments can live side by side for a short while.
            Deployments Demo01 Redeploy2
            → Step 1	→ Step 2	→ Step n

            Deployments_Demo01_Redeploy2a
            	

            Deployments_Demo01_Redeploy2b
            	

            Deployments_Demo01_Redeploy2c

5. Demonstrate Triggering a Deployment by Configuration Change

    Action: Navigate to your deployment page again, this time using the shortcut instead of the Applications menu:
    Deployments Demo01 Deployment Trigger1

    Action: Select the Environment tab, change the value of the SELECTOR environment variable to cats, and click Save:
    Deployments Demo01 Deployment Trigger2

    Action: Navigate back to the Overview page to show that a new deployment was triggered.

    Action: Once the deployment is complete, show that the new deployment is displaying cats and not cities.

6. Demonstrate Changing a Deployment Strategy

    Action: Navigate to your deployment page again using the shortcut:
    Deployments Demo01 Deployment Trigger1

    Action: Open the Actions list on the top right and select Edit YAML to manually edit the deployment configuration.

        Explain that you can also add storage, set resource limits, add an autoscaler, and edit health checks from this page.
        Deployments Demo01 Deployment Recreate1

    Action: Edit the deployment configuration YAML by removing the Rolling strategy lines and replacing them with the single word Recreate:
    Original	After Modification

    Deployments_Demo01_Deployment_Recreate2
    	

    Deployments_Demo01_Deployment_Recreate2a

    Action: Trigger a new deployment and go to the Overview page.

        Explain that in the Recreate deployment strategy all of the existing replicas are scaled to 0 and the new deployment is scaled up to the required number of replicas.

            Mention that there is a short downtime for the application with this strategy, so it is mostly used when two versions of the application cannot coexist even for a short time.
            → Step 1	→ Step 2	→ Step 3

            Recreate Deployment Triggered
            	

            Current Deployment Scaled to 0
            	

            New Deployment Scaled to n

            Deployments_Demo01_Deployment_Recreate_Redeploy2a
            	

            Deployments_Demo01_Deployment_Recreate_Redeploy2b
            	

            Deployments_Demo01_Deployment_Recreate_Redeploy2c

7. Additional Demonstrations

You can do the following optional demonstrations:

    Demonstrate AB testing.

    Demonstrate setting autoscaling for a deployment.

    Demonstrate changing the health and readiness checks.
